mrc-2616: Add vignette about running orderly tasks on the cluster (#101)
mrc-ide/didehpc: vignettes_src/orderly.Rmd

---
title: "Using didehpc to run orderly tasks"
output:
  rmarkdown::html_vignette:
    toc: true
    toc_depth: 2
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Using didehpc to run orderly tasks}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

<!-- HEADER -->

```{r, include = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  collapse = TRUE,
  error = FALSE,
  comment = "#>"
)
orderly_root <- orderly:::prepare_orderly_example("demo")
```

> When using [orderly](https://github.com/vimc/orderly) some tasks might be slow to run and would be better suited to running on a remote machine. You can use the cluster and [orderly bundles](https://www.vaccineimpact.org/orderly/articles/bundles.html) to achieve this. If your orderly instance has an [OrderlyWeb](https://github.com/vimc/orderly-web) remote then you should favour running tasks on the configured remote via `orderly::orderly_run_remote` (unless it is too slow even for the OrderlyWeb remote). If your orderly instance is using a [sharepoint remote](https://github.com/vimc/orderly.sharepoint) or has no remote then you can use the cluster to run your slow running tasks.

Reviewer: I think the "should favour" here is too strong - it will depend on the installation, and the cluster will typically have more power than a node that we run OW on

## Running a task on the cluster

> To run a single task or report on the cluster start by initialising your bundle on a network drive. For example on Linux:

Reviewer: This sentence is opaque. Perhaps

```suggestion
To run a single task or report on the cluster start by creating a directory that we will store bundles on that is within the network drive. There is no need for your orderly archive to be on a network path, and it may be preferable to store it somewhere not on a network drive to keep things tidy. For example on Linux, we might write:
```

```{r}
root <- "~/net/home/contexts"
path_bundles <- file.path(root, "bundles")

> ## Create bundle

Reviewer: Split here and add a line of prose

bundle <- orderly::orderly_bundle_pack(path_bundles, 
                                       "minimal", 
                                       root = orderly_root)
```

Then setup the cluster with required packages, you will need `orderly` at a minimum. You can use the list of packages from the `orderly.yml` e.g. for report `internal-2017-population-TUV-MHL`

```{r}
orderly_packages <- yaml::read_yaml(
  file.path(orderly_root, "src/minimal/orderly.yml"))$packages
packages <- list(loaded = c("orderly", orderly_packages))
config <- didehpc::didehpc_config(workdir = root)
ctx <- context::context_save(root, packages = packages)
obj <- didehpc::queue_didehpc(ctx, config = config)
```

> The orderly task can then be run via `orderly::orderly_bundle_run`, being careful to make sure the paths are relative to the `workdir` passed in `didehpc_config`

Reviewer: Hmm, this seems complicated. It might be worth being a bit more explicit somewhere about the setup:

* network path `N` that we'll use for running the bundles
* working directory for the session which will be `N` or some parent directory
* (possibly) non-network path that we'll be treating as our canonical repository

Reviewer: Even though I wrote this I don't have a great idea of what is going on here! We have to provide a `workdir` arg because this would otherwise run in a temporary directory which would be deleted once the cluster process stops. But is that argument relative to the bundle directory or the working directory (I'd guess the latter?). Should we use "input" then rather than "bundles" so that we have:

* `<workdir>/input/<id>.zip`
* `<workdir>/output/<id>.zip`

People will typically follow exactly the docs, and this might be a nice pattern

```{r}
path <- file.path("bundles", basename(bundle$path))
output_path <- "output"
t <- obj$enqueue(orderly::orderly_bundle_run(path, output_path))
```

When the job has completed you can import the returned bundle. If you are on windows then the `path` in the result should just work. If you are on Mac or Linux you will need to construct the path

```{r}

> output <- strsplit(t$wait(100)$path, "\\\\")[[1]]

Reviewer: I'd split this to have

````
Then we need to wait for the bundle to complete.

```{r}
t$wait(100)
```
````

Now that it has completed, we can import it...

Reviewer: However, we should never need to compute on the filename like this. Are you looking for `basename()` here perhaps?

Author: So `basename` doesn't work because of how it returns the path. It gives us something like `Q:\\path\\to\\file` which `basename` doesn't change
```
> x <- "Q:\\path\\to\\file"
> basename(x)
[1] "Q:\\path\\to\\file"
```
I'm guessing `basename` might work on windows though?

Author: Oh they can just use the path as is on windows

output_filename <- output[length(output)]
orderly::orderly_bundle_import(file.path(root, output_path, output_filename),
                               root = orderly_root)
```

> And you can see that the report has been run and imported into the orderly archive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And you can see that the report has been run and imported into the orderly archive

```

## Bundle multiple reports or one report with multiple sets of parameters

A bundle can only contain 1 orderly task for running. If you want to run multiple reports on the cluster or one report with multiple sets of parameters you need to create multiple bundles. You can make this easier with a script e.g.

```{r}
params <- c(0.25, 0.5, 0.75)
bundles <- lapply(params, function(nmin) {
  orderly::orderly_bundle_pack(path_bundles, "other", 
                               parameters = list(nmin = nmin), 
                               root = orderly_root)
  })
paths <- vapply(bundles, function(bundle) {
    file.path("bundles", basename(bundle$path))
  }, character(1))
```

and queue the tasks with `lapply`
```{r}
t <- obj$lapply(paths, orderly::orderly_bundle_run, output_path)
```
import the results
```{r}

> for (output in t$wait(100)) {

Reviewer: above, and/or here, you might indicate that 100 is the timeout

>   out <- strsplit(output$path, "\\\\")[[1]]

Reviewer: again, let's get a simpler approach here
